Facts and Statistics:

2014 Global Statistics (This is the most recent)
People living with HIV:
- 36.9 million (34.3 million - 41.4 million) people globally were living
with HIV
New HIV Infections (Total)
- 2.0 million (1.9 - 2.2 million)
New HIV infections (adults)
- 220,000 (190,000 - 260,000)
AIDS-related deaths
- 1.2 million (980,000 - 1.6 million)
People accessing treatment
- 14.9 - 15.0 million

Out of the 36.9 million people, only 14.9 million people are accessing treatment.
That means 22 million people are not accessing treatment. 

HIV burden in cities
Large proportions of people living with HIV reside in urban areas. 


Large organization such as UNAIDS, WHO (World Health Organization), 
CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) and many others are 
launching a global Diagnostic Access Initiative. The aim of the new
initiative is leverage improved, accessible, affordable, and optimally
use diagnostic technologies and strategies to ensure achievement of a new
HIV treatment target for 2020. 

90% of all people living with HIV are diagnosed
90% of people who know their status receive treatment
90% of people on HIV treatment have a suppressed viral load

Ensuring the earliest possible diagnosis of HIV infection and promoting
and measuring viral suppression for people receiving HIV treatment.

Althought 14.9 million people worldwide receive antiretroviral therapy, the world has yet to fully leverage the profound therapeutic and preventive benefits of HIV treatment. Despite historic gains, the majority
of people living with HIV still do not receive treatment. 

Failure to bring HIV treatment to people who need it represents a profound
missed opportunity in the global efforts to end the AIDS epidemic.

As a result of advance in the science of HIV treatment, a young person who
contracts HIV today has the potential to live a normal lifespan. 

HIV treatment prevents new infections.
Of all HIV prevention strategies rigorously evaluated in randomized controlled trials, HIV treatment is the most effective, reducing the odds
of HIV transmission by 96%. Every 1% increase in HIV treatment coverage
translates into at least a 1% decline in new HIV infections. 

It is estimated that UNAIDS estimates that more than half of all people living with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa do not know their status. 

Most people who enter HIV care do so at a very late stage of infectino, generating sub-optimal health outcomes. 

To learn more about receiving treatment:

Terminologies:


References: 
http://keepachildalive.org/why-aids/